Listening to customer requirements 

An enjoyable part of my role in industry has always been liaising with software users and  

and to make a positive impact 
on young lives.  

Why would I enjoy it?
- Subject

- Communication (rapport, listening)

- Problem Solving

Software engineering is primarily problem solving. It is 
important to clearly define the problem and set goals,
which can be worked towards in time-limited steps in an
organised and methodical manor.  These work skills d

Robotics to inspire.  

We wish to appoint a colleague who is passionate about their subject 
and is able to enthuse and motivate our highly ambitious students. 

Having enjoyed a twenty four year 

my subject knowledge and professional experience but 
mostly my enthusiasm for Computer Science. 

leverage my impact 

inspirational role model 

equip young people to meet the challenges presented by an 
increasingly digital future.

Thermo Fisher Scientific analytical instruments

I have a love of Computer science and I'm fascinated by how it 
promises to influence the future. 

and it's potential to profoundly influence the type of jobs 
needed in future. 

to reveal the power, elegance and     

creativity and imagination, 

debunking some myths
 
Want to inspire - why?
	Enhance future prospects
	Debunk myths 
	Thrill of mastering the technology

revealing the potential of digital technology.  

"what you’ve learnt during any school experience placements 
and how this has influenced your application"

Clear lesson objectives
Learning environment
Questions handled? 
How did the class interact?

----
Reach out into physical commuting - why
Cross curricular - other STEM and also art and music.
plug-into support networks  - CAS networks and  National Centre 
for Computing Education

“This will reward those who are ambitious and make sure that 
young people accumulate rich, well-connected knowledge and 
develop strong skills using this knowledge.”

“positive learning environment”
“behave with consistently high respect for others”

will rate how a school prepares pupils for life in modern Britain

I want to teach because I enjoy working with young people and I find 
seeing people gain new skills and progressing extremely rewarding. 

I am applying to teach biology because I find it fascinating and relevant 
to everyday life as well as to STEM careers and I would like the opportunity 
to convey my enthusiasm for the subject to children. 

I have particularly enjoyed working with secondary school aged children 
as a STEM ambassador, both in schools and at public events, and on a one-to-one 
basis as a mentor and counsellor. I enjoy the challenges they pose and the 
questions they ask.
